Welcome to J.W. Broadcasting.
This month will explore the appealing quality of humility,
the many ways it enriches our life and brings joy to Jehovah.
We'll see how husbands and wives can work together with humility
to resolve disagreements and restore peace in their marriage.
Do you find it difficult to navigate this increasingly polarized world?
We'll hear from young publishers who have learned to imitate humbly
Jehovah's Reasonableness.
Are you sometimes discouraged by your flaws?
This month's music video invites us to be like soft clay
that Jehovah molds into a beautiful spiritual person.
This is J.W. Broadcasting for February 2025.
Have you ever considered who is the greatest example of humility?
If your answer is Jehovah, you're correct.
Why? Because every living intelligent creation is inferior to him,
yet he chose to and continues to include others in his activities.
Humility can be described as lowliness of mind and being free from pride and arrogance.
A humble person finds happiness in including others in his life and endeavors.
Because of its many benefits, our theme for discussion this month is
humility, a quality that will enrich our life eternally.
Jehovah's great measure of humility became apparent when he collaborated
with his only begotten son and included him as his master worker in creation.
Later, as angels were created, these mighty spirit creatures
imitated the humility already being shown by Jehovah.
These faithful angels were free from pride and arrogance.
This resulted in everyone in heaven enjoying peace for eons of time.
Humility in heaven was like oil to an engine.
It keeps things running smoothly.
Satan was the first one to succumb to the temptation of pride and arrogance,
rejecting the godlike quality of humility.
When he did so, rebellion and turmoil soon followed.
But it's important for us to note that the need for humility
didn't arise because of sin, rebellion, and imperfection.
Humility existed before these ugly traits.
It's also vital for us to understand that while Jehovah is inferior to no one,
that's not the case with us.
Jehovah knows that the quality of humility will help us in our imperfect condition.
For example, it will help us to imitate him, to faithfully serve him,
and to survive the end of the system of things.
Yes, Jehovah knows that humility will enrich our lives today and eternally.
We can see how important this endearing quality is to Jehovah
to read Psalm 45 verses 3 and 4.
Jehovah gave these prophetic instructions to his kingly son
before the great battle in heaven.
Strap your sword on your side, O mighty one, in your dignity and your splendor,
and in your splendor, go on to victory, ride in the cause of truth and humility and righteousness.
These verses describe Jesus Christ as a king,
writing in battle to defend truth, humility, and righteousness.
The greatest truth he defends is the sanctification of Jehovah's great name.
In connection with righteousness, he supports Jehovah's standards of right and wrong,
and in the case of humility, he restores it to its rightful place
among all intelligent creation.
Jesus has already reaffirmed these timeless standards in heaven,
soon he'll do the same for the earth, with the commission to save only those
who are humble and obedient.
Our developing and displaying humility then is essential to our survival.
If you want to know if you're truly humble at heart, ask yourself,
how do others view me?
If you serve as a congregation elder,
do your fellow elders feel comfortable giving you counsel?
When was the last time they did so?
How did you react?
If you're serving as a pioneer, do you endeavor to learn from those with less experience?
Do our loved ones and our family feel that we really consider their opinion on matters?
Why are questions like these important?
Because a truly humble person will make a realistic assessment of himself with such questions.
Why is that? Because humility is directly related to honesty.
True humility enables us to see ourselves as we really are
and to honestly admit all of our weaknesses and failures.
In contrast, pride and arrogance are directly related to deception
and arrogant person covers up his weaknesses and failures.
And that can only last so long because eventually pride leads to a crash
as Proverbs 16 verse 18 warns us.
Let's consider five ways that humility enriches our life.
First, the Bible clearly teaches that humble people receive God's help.
One example is David.
He became a powerful king in Israel,
yet notice who he attributed his greatness to at Psalm 18 verse 35.
You give me your shield of salvation, your right hand supports me,
and your humility makes me great.
Because Jehovah is humble, he lured himself to assist David,
enabling this humble man to become a mighty king.
Down to our day, Jehovah delights to come to the aid of his humble servants.
Have you not felt him stoop down as it were to help you?
The second benefit is that having a humble disposition will protect us
just as a heavy coat can protect us from harsh elements.
It also makes our personality more attractive to Jehovah and to others.
Notice the word picture Peter used at first Peter 5 verse 5b.
But all of you clothe yourselves with humility toward one another
because God opposes the haughty ones,
but he gives undeserved kindness to the humble ones.
Clothing both protects and dignifies.
If remissing an item of clothing or our clothing is frayed,
others can surely see it.
Likewise, others can usually see if we're not fully clothed with humility.
In contrast, the more humility we display,
the more attractive we are to Jehovah and to others.
Just like a favorite garment, humility should be our go-to quality
that's perfect for any occasion.
A third benefit of humility is that it fosters teamwork.
When co-workers apply Philippians chapter 2 verse 3,
they're able to enjoy productive collaboration.
That verse says,
do nothing out of contentiousness or out of ecotism,
but with humility consider others superior to you.
When we appreciate that everyone is superior to us in some way,
we'll be more inclined to listen to their suggestions.
Humility promotes cooperation, not competition.
Humble people see others as resources and contributors, not rivals.
Consider a single musician.
By himself, he can generally only produce the sound from one instrument.
However, as a member of an orchestra,
the entire music performance is enriched.
A humble musician finds contentment and collaboration,
even if that places him in the background.
He doesn't aspire to receive all the attention of a solo performance
or to place all out, he drowns out his fellow performers.
One translation renders humility at Philippians 2 verse 3
to be self-effacing.
This means to make ourselves inconspicuous,
working in the background and avoiding the limelight.
That's like a photographer who takes portraits of others instead of himself.
And as he focuses on others,
the photographer endeavors to capture their features in the best light
so that they look their best.
The same principle applies to our sacred service.
In all aspects of our worship,
let's remember that we're part of Jehovah's team.
By all of us humbly cooperating together,
we'll be useful to Jehovah in accomplishing his will.
Our humility will put others in a favorable light with God and with others.
A fourth benefit of humility is that a humble person generally enjoys
seeing others make advancement or receive privileges.
John the Baptist is a good example in this regard.
He humbly acknowledged that Jesus' ministry would keep on increasing
as his own work would keep on decreasing.
How did John feel about that?
Seeing the advancement of Jesus moved John to say at John 3 verse 29,
my joy has been made complete.
Like John, humility allows a brother to be an overseer at one time
and one being overseen at another time.
If you have the privilege to serve as a congregation elder,
can you see how this spirit would benefit your entire elder body?
A fifth benefit is that humility helps us to endure opposition.
A humble person doesn't feel he's above being reproached.
He's able to endure unpleasant situations and not retaliate
if Jehovah permits him to suffer adversity.
We have the example of Jesus as highlighted at 1 Peter 2 verse 23.
There it says, when he was being insulted,
he did not insult in return.
When he was suffering, he did not threaten,
but he entrusted himself to the one who judges righteously.
What helped Jesus to endure?
Humility.
He didn't think, do you know who I am?
I shouldn't have to suffer like this.
Likewise, our maintaining a humble demeanor may well serve as a protection for us,
perhaps even moving observers to come to our aid when others oppose us.
We've just talked about five benefits of humility and there are many others.
But what if we find that our background or culture makes cultivating humility especially challenging for us?
This is how you feel.
You may be encouraged by the example of a Roman army officer introduced to us in Matthew 8.
A Roman centurion had direct command of about 100 soldiers.
He likely had a past littered with many acts of violence and bloodshed.
Humility was likely not a quality associated with many officers of this rank.
Let's read the account in Matthew 8.5 through 8.
When he Jesus entered Capernaum, an army officer came to him pleading with him and saying,
Sir, my servant is laid up in the house with paralysis and he's suffering terribly.
He said to him, When I get there, I will cure him.
The army officer replied, Sir, I'm not worthy to have you come under my roof,
but just say the word and my servant will be healed.
The officers addressing Jesus twice as Sir was significant since Romans generally despised Jews.
This army officer also said in verse 8, I am not worthy.
In other words, I'm not important enough for you to come under my roof.
Though I named in the scriptures, he proved himself to be an outstanding example of humility.
Note what Jesus said about this officer at Matthew 8 verse 10.
When Jesus heard that, he was amazed and said to those following him,
I tell you the truth, with no one in Israel have I found so great a faith.
How does this account encourage us?
Despite our past, like the army officer, all of us can develop humility.
How can we do so?
Cultivate a desire to be humble to your very core.
Frequently remind yourself that to please God, you must be humble.
Also remember that pride and arrogance are traits of Satan.
Keep the correct perspective by meditating on your insignificance compared to Jehovah.
And pray to Jehovah for help to display humility as he does.
Happiness in marriage requires humility, especially when husbands and wives don't see eye to eye.
When a disagreement leads to hurt feelings, do we find it hard to apologize?
Notice what can help in this episode of For a Happy Marriage.
A strong marriage can be an oasis of peace in a difficult world.
But no matter how strong the bond, every marriage consists of an imperfect man
and an imperfect woman living in a confined space.
Even in a happy marriage, disagreements can arise that lead loving spouses to use hurtful words.
At a certain point, you may not even remember how the disagreement started, and yet the conflict escalates.
As this ever happened to you, did you apologize and make things right?
The mere passing of time won't make the hurt disappear.
The real triumph, peace, can only come about with a sincere apology.
Do nothing out of contentiousness or out of ego-tism.
But with humility, consider others superior to you.
Try to see things from your spouse's viewpoint.
How would a sincere apology make you feel?
Don't let your ego get in the way.
Take responsibility for your part in the dispute.
Even if you don't think you've done anything wrong.
Acknowledge the hurt you've caused your spouse.
And be quick to accept each other's sincere apologies.
Peaceful relationships are worth much more than pride or victory.
But peace in the family must be maintained.
It can be easy to focus on your mate's flaws.
And when you feel like you're being pushed to your limit?
Remember, James 3, verse 2 says,
We all stumble many times.
The quicker you apologize, no matter who is to blame,
the faster you restore the peace and happiness in your family.
When you sincerely apologize and accept your mate's apology,
you put your marriage ahead of yourself
and continue to strengthen your bond of love.
Every couple will have disagreements.
So take the time now to prepare it together for a peaceful resolution.
Earlier, we noted that humility is linked to honesty.
Being honest with ourselves about our own weaknesses and faults
cultivates empathy for our spouse
and makes it easier to offer and accept their sincere apology.
Promoting peace outside the home can be even more challenging in this deeply divided world.
People are ideologically polarized.
Some argue that we should accept every lifestyle and belief without exception.
Others view those who are different with hatred.
The Bible reveals from Jehovah's perspective how we should treat others.
In our next segment, see how learning about the strength and the faith of two young ones.
In what ways have you seen people treat others who are different from them?
When I was at school, a common viewpoint of my schoolmates
was that you should be accepting of whatever lifestyle someone chooses to lead.
Teachers would encourage us to support those with different sexual orientations.
In my final year of high school, a new teacher arrived.
He was different. He came from the capital and I lived in a small town.
He had spent many years at university and didn't believe in God.
On social media, it was very common to see extreme viewpoints about different lifestyles.
I often saw comments attacking others for their lifestyles.
The teacher had a very different personality.
He seemed to like attacking the students and putting them on the spot.
He would ask probing questions about controversial topics in class
and even made comments to the class like the people from here aren't made for learning.
Of course, the students didn't react very well.
Many of them refused to attend his classes.
Or if they did, they refused to speak to him during the class.
I remember them saying, I'm not going to talk with that atheist.
I remember that some classmates would say to me,
don't Jehovah's Witnesses hate gay people?
It seemed like many students assumed that we must have an extreme viewpoint
and that we would completely reject those who don't conform to our beliefs.
What helped you get the Bible's viewpoint?
My parents always helped me to have a balanced viewpoint.
As I was growing up, they helped me understand that even though we completely reject certain conduct,
we don't hate the person who practices it.
I learned a lot from my mom's example.
She used to work at a beauty salon and I saw how she was always kind to others she worked with,
regardless of their sexual orientation.
I thought of Jesus' example, how he shared the message with everyone,
no matter their thinking or background.
Jesus took the time to talk with them,
no matter who they were or what others thought of them.
I love the scripture at Matthew 5.45,
where it says that Jehovah makes the sunshine and the rainfall on all people.
This is an expression of his love,
to provide what each person needs, no matter who they are.
As I was thinking about Jesus' example,
I remembered his words recorded at Matthew,
where he tells us that what you want men to do to you,
you also must do to them.
This helped me to think about how I should act around my teacher.
It made me treat him differently.
I mean, if Jehovah, the Almighty God,
is kind, good, and respectful toward all,
why shouldn't I be?
And that would include those whose conduct I don't agree with.
Jehovah has given us the best way to show our love for our neighbor,
by helping them to come to know him.
What has been the outcome of applying Bible principles?
At my previous job, I worked at a hotel where there was a waiter who was gay.
Some of his coworkers would treat him poorly.
So I made sure I didn't join in with them,
and treated him like I would anyone else.
I was able to have conversations with my teacher about the Bible,
and share scriptures with him.
He was impressed by what the Bible had to say on scientific matters,
and said he wanted to find out more.
One day, the waiter came up to me,
and thanked me for being different from the others in the way I treated him.
Even some of the other waiters asked me why I was like that.
This opened up the opportunity to explain that I tried to apply Bible principles in my life,
including how I treat others.
There was a noticeable change in the teacher as the school year went on.
He told me that he was impressed by my conduct,
and because I had spoken with him when none of the other students would.
His classes became so much better because he started to be nicer to his students.
Little by little, the students returned to class,
and by the end of the year, it had become one of the classes that we enjoyed the most.
When I think about the way that Jehovah treats people,
and how he gives everyone a chance to learn about him,
I'm drawn to him even more.
Living by Bible standards does mean that we agree with every belief or opinion that others have.
It does mean treating everyone with dignity and respect,
regardless of the choices they make.
Jehovah wants all people to have an opportunity to know him.
Public witnessing has long been a powerful way to accomplish this.
Yet many aspects of this work have changed over time.
As we'll see in this episode of Our History in Motion.
As Jehovah's Witnesses, we preach to people wherever we find them.
Today, our literature carts in displays are a common sight all over the world.
But how did public witnessing get started?
We'll explore this story of courage and innovation on this episode of Our History in Motion.
Jesus set the precedent for public witnessing.
He taught in the main streets and along the road.
The Apostle Paul and other first century Christians followed that courageous pattern.
Jehovah's Monoday people follow a similar example.
In the late 1800s, the Bible students, as we were called back then,
published a booklet called The Bible Versus Evolution.
The goal? To distribute over 300,000 copies.
But there was only a small group of Bible students at the time.
How could they distribute that much literature?
The April 15th, 1899 issue of the Watchtower sent out a call.
Volunteers wanted.
To stand at street corners outside of churches distributing the track to anyone interested.
Clergy members were not happy with this.
They even tried to have the publishers arrested for distributing free tracks.
Nonetheless, the Bible students courageously did not give up.
And just one year, over 900,000 tracks were distributed at street corners all across North America and Europe.
Our public witnessing work was just getting started.
In the 1920s, we launched a massive preaching campaign around the publication and public talk series.
Millions now living will never die.
We thought outside the box and tried numerous methods to draw the public's attention.
And it worked.
Over the next several years, we developed even more methods of reaching people.
Brothers and sisters even wore their public witnessing in the form of placards known as sandwich boards.
And magazine bags.
There were information marches.
Imagine being part of one.
And brother Rutherford, of course, was a shorthand expert.
And whenever you talk to him, he'd always be busy writing.
He would be making notes about it in a way.
So he's doing that this day.
He ripped it off and he gave it to me.
He said, what do you think of it?
And it said, religions are snare in their racket.
So I said, that's pretty strong.
As a matter of fact, I said, that's hot.
Well, he said, that's what I meant it to be.
So now he said, don't you think it's a good idea?
Now, we're going to have a big information march two days from now.
Couldn't brother play in the printing, make up some signs.
There in Iraq and put them on poles and we'll have them for the parade.
So, all right.
And that's what we did.
And brother Rutherford also in London at that time.
So he and I led this parade.
This parade was six miles long.
A thousand brothers showed up for the parade.
It really was a spectacle.
In the years that followed, information marches such as these took place across the world.
In January of 1940, the informant announced the beginning of magazine streetwork.
With the focus on working the busiest parts of cities.
After that, many became familiar with Jehovah's Witnesses by seeing us offering magazines on streets all over the world.
However, not everyone appreciated our efforts.
In some cases, entire mobs of people would attack our brothers and sisters.
But they courageously pressed forward in the preaching work despite the constant threat of violence.
Their faithful presence and personal interest even led some to change their opinion of Jehovah's Witnesses.
You might even know a brother or sister who found the truth by stopping at a literature display at a university, shopping center, or airport.
A major milestone occurred at the dawn of the 21st century when the governing body approved our brothers in France to begin testing different methods of public witnessing.
Including the use of literature cards, which looked much different from what we used today.
After years of success, the governing body continued to make refinements to public witnessing, including the development of special metropolitan public witnessing.
These changes put us in contact with people we wouldn't have found when working from house to house.
That brings us to today.
Public witnessing is a key part of our ministry.
Literature cards are so familiar that we've even written a song about them.
But whether you're one of thousands in an information march or just one publisher on a street corner, the goal is the same.
To demonstrate our love for Jehovah and to reach people's hearts.
See you next time on, our history and motion.
Can you picture yourself among the thousand witnesses in that six mile long information march?
It takes courage and humility to step out into the public eye and proclaim the good news.
Through public witnessing, we've scattered countless seeds of truth.
It can take some time to see the positive impact of our decisions to serve others and Jehovah.
That was the case with Michael and Linda Degregorio. Here's their experience.
We love spending time with people who want to do more in Jehovah's service.
Being willing to serve others leads to a life full of blessings.
In the late 1970s, Linda and I were both assigned as special pioneers in Minnesota. That's who we first met.
Then I was invited to Gillian, it was assigned to the Dominican Republic serving at the branch, and that's what we got married and Linda joined me there.
The Dominican Republic branch was still quite small in those years, so right after we got married, our assigned room was the Bethel Library.
And we were told this is the library, so the door needs to be open until nine o'clock at night, every night.
So that presented some unique challenges?
And that really was a life lesson for us. You really need to keep a good sense of humor.
By nature, I'm pretty shy, but Dominicans are fun and open and very lighthearted.
That was a huge help to me because I learned a lot about how not to take things so seriously.
And I also learned things that we considered essentials were not essentials.
You could live very happily with a lot less, and that was really good training for me.
So after being in the Dominican Republic for a few years, the work was moving forward.
There was a new branch under construction, and it even looked like we were going to have the possibility of having a room with an ocean view.
But all of that was about to change.
It certainly was.
In 1989, the Berlin Wall fell, and that started a ripple effect.
A lot of the small countries in Eastern Europe were starting to gain independence, and now they were able to have more religious freedom than they ever had before.
It was very interesting to us because Mike had family in Albania, which was one of those countries that had been under band for many years.
We thought maybe it might be possible to visit Albania if it wasn't too dangerous for two or three days to meet the family and to reconnect.
It wasn't long after that that we unexpectedly got a letter from the governing body.
And the letter said, we understand you're going to Albania for two or three days.
We were wondering if you'd be willing to stay for two or three months and help with the kingdom work.
We were really sure with that meant, but we were willing to try.
The realities of the governing body had very limited information, but was happening in Albania.
The work was under band. They didn't have a branch. They didn't have a congregation.
Many of them didn't even know each other were still around.
They didn't know if we could find housing there. If we could find food, the country was in a total economic crisis.
Even with all the unknowns, we were still thrilled to go.
And we knew, well, it's going to be two or three months, and you can do pretty much anything for two or three months.
We're going to give it our best shot.
Of course, once we arrived, we got a better picture. It was really happening.
The infrastructure had actually collapsed. People are scrambling to get a new government up and going.
It was quite difficult.
But each assignment that we had prepared us for the next assignment.
Having lived in the Dominican Republic where there were already limited resources, it didn't make it as quite as scary.
It made that bridge a little easier for us to cross.
Some of the first things that we had to do was try to see if we could find the old brothers and sisters.
It was just a handful of them.
And at the same time, we had to try to do what we could to meet with officials and see what could be done to help move the work forward legally.
In the process of trying to get the work legalized, unexpectedly we found out that a brother from the United States who had Albanian background was coming to visit his relatives.
And I said to one day, tomorrow I have a meeting with the ministry who's responsible to give us legalization.
Would you like to come with me? Oh, I'd be delighted, he said.
So we go to the office. When we got to the office, the minister wasn't there, but he sent his legal advisor out.
And she made introductions and then she looked at the brother and she says, were you from any such and such a village.
And she said, that's my village. It turned out to be that they were cousins.
Now she looked everybody and she said, my goodness, I was already willing to help you because there was never a charter that I've read that's better written than yours.
But now I have a family obligation.
It was just a few days later we got a call and we had the document in our hands. Jehovah's Witnesses of Albania was finally legalized, the band was lifted after 50 years.
After the work was legalized, we just saw Jehovah's Prayer work so mightily things were just moving forward in a way that we never expected.
They were flooding into the meetings, young people, older people. They were really hungry for the truth.
At the end of the three month assignment, the governing body kindly asked us, would you now be willing to stay since the work is legalized?
Well, at this point, those folks had become so dear to our hearts that there was no way that we could leave. We couldn't leave our family and we were thrilled to be able to stay with them.
We ended up serving in Albania just about 30 years and those 30 years went by very quickly.
Who knew that a three day trip would turn into an assignment of a lifetime?
When you allow yourself to go outside your comfort zone, you learn a lot about yourself, but you're also more useful to Jehovah, you're also in a better position to help other people.
And that's an opportunity you never want to miss.
And really never say no to an assignment just because we might be fearful of what the unknown is.
When we put ourselves in Jehovah's hands, he's the one that will take on the responsibility to help us.
So put them to the test, let him help us. He knows where to put us at the right time.
And in reality, we're just a pencil in Jehovah's hands, letting him do the writing.
Michael and Linda chose to serve in Albania for decades, even when it was hard.
Today, over 5,000 witnesses served Jehovah in that land.
Now we'll examine the contrasting examples of humility of two men named Saul.
Please enjoy this morning worship talk by Brother Jeffrey Jackson of the governing body.
When we think of the matter of humility, we realize there are many examples in the Bible to help us some positive, some negative.
Perhaps now we could just think for a few moments about one negative example and one positive example of two men who both had the name Saul.
The first one we'll think about is the man who became known as King Saul of Israel.
If you'd like to take your Bibles, please, and turn with me to the beginning of the book of First Samuel.
You'll notice the outline of contents that gives us an overview of what happened at that particular time.
So in that outline of contents, we noticed there in chapter 10, it says, Saul anointed to be King.
Do you remember the circumstances?
At that point was Saul proud?
Was he presenting himself as the man, the one who would lead the nation into a new era?
No, we remember how the Scriptures described that he was hiding in the luggage.
So he didn't want a prominent position.
He was hesitant to take that role.
But Jehovah blessed him and he was anointed.
And if we look on a little further, we see in chapter 11 that he defeats the Ammonites.
At that point it does specifically say that Jehovah's spirit was with him.
Also, there's mention of the fact that humbly, he did not retaliate against those who opposed him.
But when we looked down at chapter 13, what does it say there?
Saul acts presumptuously.
So he had lost his humility and lost Jehovah's favor.
How long into his rulership was this?
Well, if we look at chapter 13, verse 1,
it tells us that it was right at the beginning maybe just two or three years had passed at this point.
So what does that tell us?
He lost his humility very quickly after being anointed as king.
Not only that, but Jehovah allowed him to continue on in that position for perhaps over 35 years.
So what lessons do we learn from that with regard to ourselves?
Well, the first lesson is, perhaps before being appointed to be an elder or some other service privilege,
we may have been hesitant, we may have been humble, we may not have wanted that particular position,
we may have felt we weren't qualified.
Maybe we were very humble in our viewpoint.
But remember the case of King Saul, how quickly, once he got appointed in that position,
how quickly he lost humility.
The second lesson is that just because we remain in a certain role, position of authority,
does not in itself prove that Jehovah approves of us or that we are remaining humble.
So that's why it's so important for us to continually analyze ourselves to see if we are remaining humble,
and we do still have that humility that we perhaps exhibited many years ago.
Now the second example we'd like to discuss is that of Saul who became well known as the Apostle Paul.
Well, how was Saul's start?
Was he a humble man? Was he like the man who became king Saul?
Was he hiding in the luggage? No, he was right there in the front.
In fact, in 1 Timothy 1 verse 13, the Apostle Paul describes himself in those days as an insolent man,
and that expression can indicate someone who speaks in a very downgrading way to others,
humiliates them, and certainly would show a very proud, arrogant man.
And yet what happened to this man's Saul?
Well, he progressed, became a Christian, and Jehovah's Spirit helped him to become a very humble person.
Now how do we know that the Apostle Paul really was very humble?
Well, there are many things that we could mention, but perhaps let's just talk about one particular aspect.
I'm going to ask a question for you to answer yourself.
Do you think the Apostle Paul was an eloquent speaker? Was he very good at speaking to others?
Your initial reaction might be to say, no.
Let's think a little bit more before we give a definite answer.
When we look at the book of Acts, what do we see?
We see recorded there many of the speeches that the Apostle Paul gave.
In Antioch, he gave a very, very effective witness.
In Listera, remember when he and Barnabas were there?
The people thought that he was Hermes because he was taking the lead in speaking at that time.
How often have we referred to Acts 17 where Paul, in a very skillful manner, in a very difficult circumstance,
was able to preach to people using this altar for an unknown God,
even quoted from some of the local prophets or, sorry, the poets?
So this helps us to see that he was a very effective person when he spoke to others.
On the steps when he was taken from the temple and the crowd wanted to kill him,
he again gave a very effective speech.
Not to mention, of course, a number of times that he spoke before many of the Gentile rulers
and gave a very effective witness.
So now how are we feeling about the Apostle Paul's ability to speak?
Well, probably with thinking, he must have been a very eloquent speaker.
He could really project the message and persuade others.
But now, why was there a little hesitancy on our part to say Paul was an excellent speaker?
Well, maybe it comes from one scripture.
Let's look at 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse 6.
And here the Apostle Paul speaking to the brothers in Corinth says,
but even if I am unskilled in speech, I certainly am not in knowledge.
Was Paul saying here he didn't know how to speak?
No, he was answering the super-fine apostles who criticized him,
who spoke in a very disparaging manner with regard to him.
In fact, they even said his speech was contemptible.
And when Paul says here,
but even if I am unskilled, is he really saying he wasn't skilled in speaking?
No, he was answering them according to their own standards that they had set up.
So with that in mind, we might ask a question,
why is it the brothers in Corinth, perhaps, had this impression
after what we've just considered with regard to Paul's background?
Well, let's have a look at 1 Corinthians, and this brings us back to the matter of humility.
So 1 Corinthians chapter 2,
and we're going to read together verses 1 through 5.
So when I came to you, brothers,
I did not come with extravagant speech or wisdom declaring the sacred secret of God to you.
So Paul deliberately did not come to them
with using all the debating methods that the Corinthians were used to.
Notice in verse 2 what it tells us,
for I decided not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ
and him executed on the stake.
This was a deliberate decision on the part of the apostle Paul,
not to use this extravagant speech, this wisdom that he could have used.
And notice in verses 3 through 5 how he continues on.
And I came to you in weakness and in fear and with much trembling
and my speech and what I preached were not with persuasive words of wisdom
but with a demonstration of spirit and power.
So that your faith might be not on men's wisdom but in God's power.
What is Paul saying here?
He realized the brothers and Corinth had a problem.
They put too much emphasis on worldly wisdom in the way that people presented themselves.
No doubt that was part of why they had divisions in the congregation.
So Paul trying to avoid that situation and putting emphasis
truly on Jehovah's Holy Spirit and the power of the message
decided not to use this so-called wisdom that he could have used.
Isn't that a very humble action on his part?
He was willing to be thought of badly.
He was willing to have people say that he couldn't speak properly
because he wanted to focus the glory on Jehovah.
What do we learn from this example?
Well, we see that an arrogant person can become humble.
But also we see that at times we may decide if we are humble
not to display the wisdom and talents that we have perhaps to downplay them
so that the glory goes to Jehovah.
So what an interesting set of examples for us.
May we never be like King Saul who lost his humility
and may we be like the Apostle Paul who continued to be humble,
willing to put himself down in order for Jehovah's glory to be in the fore.
A humble person can become proud.
But Paul is inspiring proof that a proud and arrogant person can become humble.
He humbly allowed Jehovah to mold him.
Humbly placing ourselves in Jehovah's loving hands is the theme of a new music video,
which tells the story of a person who learns the truth while imprisoned.
Jehovah, my God, your eyes can see an imperfect heart inside of me.
Still, I try to serve you loyally when my words get away without restraint
or things that I do don't bring you praise.
I beg you, please keep working with me.
I look to you, my father, I am the clay.
You are my puddle, shaping me into something new.
Something that brings praise to you, someone I smile to your face.
Mold me with your loving care.
Help me to draw close in prayer.
My father hit your word and calling to mind the things I've heard.
Please put with him that helps me each day to make a new start.
You won't let my mistakes define to you to something in prayer.
If at times you're discouraged by your flaws or struggle to make changes in your life,
be assured that Jehovah helps those who approach him with a humble heart.
As we've explored in our program, humility is an endearing quality that enriches our lives.
It helps us lovingly resolve conflicts and marriage.
It moves us to treat others in a way acceptable to Jehovah,
and it opens our minds to other methods of preaching.
This month's postcard comes to us from Myanmar in Southeast Asia, also called Burma.
Some describe Myanmar as being shaped like a kite with its tail running along the Malay Peninsula.
Earlier settlers called Myanmar the Golden Land.
It's a land of vast natural resources.
Myanmar's forest produced valued timbers like teak and rosewood.
The land is rich in silver, copper, sapphires and rubies.
The people are known to be gentle, considerate and hospitable.
Eight major ethnic groups live in Myanmar, each with its own language and culture.
Personal names are usually composed of several descriptive words.
For example, the name Chow Sendai Mi means sweet moon above.
Visitors to Myanmar quickly notice the yellow paste that adorns the faces of most women and children.
It's called Venaka, made from the bark of the Venaka tree.
This natural cosmetic cools and protects the skin from the tropical sun.
And it's been used for over 2,000 years.
The preaching work began here in 1914 with the arrival of two Bible students.
Missionaries followed and by 1939, three congregations totaling 28 witnesses had been established.
In the 1940s, a pioneer sister contacted members of the ethnic group known as the Corinne.
Himmei, also known as Lily and her sister Choumei, are Daisy, learn the truth from her.
Lily became the first Corinne to be baptized as a witness at Jehovah.
Daisy was also baptized and both became zealous pioneers.
Hundreds of their descendants and Bible students are among the thousands who served Jehovah in Myanmar today.
They persevered despite poverty, political upheaval, religious persecution and war.
Our brothers preach in over 20 languages.
In 2024, Myanmar reported an all-time peak of publishers, nearly 12,000 people attended the memorial.
The Pado congregation is located in a small village in the Bugo region, 86 publishers and four special pioneers serve here.
Our brothers and sisters in the Pado congregation and the Lai Remote Translation Office send you their love.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.